# Elevate Women Period
#### Video Demo: https://youtu.be/MXElp1f8gGg
#### Description:

Over the course of the CS50 class, I learnt tons of new skills to improve my efficiency and knowledge as a computer programmer, and discovered how to code in many new languages  like SQL and C to create programs that were simultaneously fun and useful. While I was exposed to a lot of the more complex forms of coding during this year’s CS50 course to create programs that could make the experience of using a technological device more enjoyable, for my final project I wanted to use my new computer programming skills to solve a real-world problem that means a lot to me. Therefore, the project I created used my web-design skills that I was taught during this year’s CS50 course by helping make a website that would incite real-world change where I live. At 17 years old, I currently live in Harare, Zimbabwe. While there are many things to love about this country such as the beautiful wildlife and marvelous natural landmarks like Victoria Falls, there is a severe lack of awareness and attention to menstrual hygiene awareness and products. According to UNICEF, 76% of girls in both rural and urban schools are unaware of the proper information on menstruation during adolescence (“New menstrual hygiene awareness programmes bring relief to girls in Bikita”). That is why the NGO I am a part of, called “Elevate Women Period”, was created. Ideated in early 2022, Elevate Women Period is a trust dedicated to providing menstrual products and education for women across Zimbabwe. For the CS50 Final Project, I created a web application for the organization so they can raise attention and awareness to the plight at hand.

My web application is built using flask as a web framework, while coding in  HTML, CSS, and Python and using jinja for templating. In making this website, I had debated on whether or not to code in flask, as I had originally thought it would have been just as efficient to code strictly in HTML, CSS and Javascript instead. However after further thought, I decided to stick with flask, for several reasons. Firstly, I am more comfortable with Python than Javascript, so it was more feasible to create the website using flask. Secondly, my comfort with Python and flask would allow me to build on this code in the future, and further develop the website into offering more functionality and interactivity, thereby turning it into more of an application. This website currently has 4 active pages, and is planned for a 5th once legal red tape is resolved. These active pages include a home page, about us page, contact page and page talking about our projects. As I plan to work on this website much past CS50, I hope to implement a donate page as well, which would require navigation through governmental policies that weren’t realistic in this project's time frame. All of this code is supported through an app.py code that uses flask to initialize website direction, and a static folder with images and css to decorate the site.

In conclusion, though I have concluded the CS50 course as well as the final project, the door this project has opened is far from over. I have begun a chapter in my life that I plan on continuing working on far past this course, and hope to help thousands of teenage girls around Zimbabwe as a result. I am glad that this course has taught me what it means to code, far past building intricate programs for games and jokes, but instead using my code to change the world. As I look to apply to colleges this application season, I am ready to see how I will be able to further grow my programming skills to help others, like through this final project.


